xlattice-go
===========

A golang implementation of XLattice.


## rnglib

A Go random number generator especially useful for generating 
quasi-random strings, files, and directories.

This package contains two classes, SimpleRNG and SystemRNG.
Both of these subclass Go's rand package and so rand's functions 
can be called through either of rnglib's two subclasses.

SimpleRNG is the faster of the subclasses.  It uses the Mersenne
Twister and so is completely predictable with a very long period.
It is suitable where speed and predictability are both important.
That is, you can be certain that if you provide the same seed, then
the sequence of numbers generated will be exactly the same.  This is
often important for debugging.  SimpleRNG is approximately 30% 
faster than Go's rand package in our tests.

SystemRNG is a secure random number generator, meaning that it is
extremely difficult or impossible to predict the next number 
generated in a sequence.  It is based on the system's /dev/urandom.
This relies in part upon entropy accumulated by the system; when 
this is insufficient it will revert to using a very secure 
programmable random number generator.  SystemRNG is about 35x
slower than SimpleRNG in our test runs.

For normal use in testing, SimpleRNG is preferred.  When there is
a requirement for a reasonable level of security, as in the 
generation of passwords and cryptographic keys with reasonable 
strength, SystemRNG is recommended.  

In addition to the functions available from Go's random package,
rnglib also provides

    NextBoolean()
    NextByte(max=256)
    NextBytes(buffer)
    NextInt32(n uint32)
    NextInt64(n uint64)
    NextFloat32()
    NextFloat64()
    NextFileName(maxLen int)
    NextDataFile(dirName string, maxLen, minLen int)
    NextDataDir(pathToDir string, depth, width, maxLen, minLen int)

Given a buffer of arbitrary length, nextBytes() will fill it with random
bytes.

File names generated by nextFileName() are at least one character long.  
The first letter must be alphabetic (including the underscore) 
whereas other characters may also be numeric or either of dot and dash
("." and "-").

The function nextDataFile() creates a file with a random name in the
directory indicated.  The file length will vary from minLen (which 
defaults to zero) up to but excluding maxLen bytes.

The nextDataDir() function creates a directory structure that is
'depth' deep and 'width' wide, where the latter means that there 
will be that many files in each directory and subdirectory created
(where is file is either a data file or a directory).  Depth and
width must both be at least 1.  maxLen and minLen are used as in
nextDataFile().
