# U: A Data Store Organized by Content Key

Rather than storing data files in a hierarchical directory structure
where both directories and data files are given string names, **u**
stores files named by their content keys.  The keys are generated by
either SHA1 or SHA3 (Keccak-256).  Storage by content keys has several 
advantages.  For one, it is trivial to determine whether a file is corrupt:
you simply recalculate the hash.  In a distributed storage system, files
are requested by key.  All machines participating in the retrieval can
check file integrity as the file is passing through and drop and
re-request if the hash doesn't match the content key.

**u** is optimized for storing very large numbers of files.  The
first byte of the content key determines which top-level directory
the file goes in; the second byte determines its lower-level 
directory.  So if a file's content hash is abcdef...1234, then it
will be stored in ab/cd/ef...1234.  There are 256 top-level 
directories and 256 subdirectories below each of these, so 256x256 = 
65536 lower-level directories.  

<pre><code>
	// Determine the SHA1 or SHA3 content hash of an arbitrary file
	func FileSHA1(path string) (hash string, err error)
	func FileSHA3(path string) (hash string, err error)
	
	// Create a u256x256 directory structure
	func New(path string) *U256x256
	
	// Attributes for files in U, a u256x256 directory tree
	func (u *U256x256) Exists(key string) bool
	func (u *U256x256) FileLen(key string) (length int64, err error)
	func (u *U256x256) GetPathForKey(key string) string
	
	// Copy a data file and add the copy to U using an SHA1 key.  If the
	// key doesn't match, the operation fails.
	func (u *U256x256) CopyAndPut1(path, key string) (
	    written int64, hash string, err error)
	// Retrieve a file by its SHA1 key.
	func (u *U256x256) GetData1(key string) (
	    data []byte, err error)
	// Insert a data file into U; the original is lost.
	func (u *U256x256) Put1(inFile, key string) (
	    length int64, hash string, err error)
	// Write a buffer into U, storing it by its SHA1 key.
	func (u *U256x256) PutData1(data []byte, key string) (
	    length int64, hash string, err error)
	
	// Similar functions using the SHA3 (Keccak-256) hash function.
	func (u *U256x256) CopyAndPut3(path, key string) (
	    written int64, hash string, err error)
	func (u *U256x256) GetData3(key string) (
	    data []byte, err error){ var path string
	func (u *U256x256) Put3(inFile, key string) (
	    length int64, hash string, err error)
	func (u *U256x256) PutData3(data []byte, key string) (
	    length int64, hash string, err error)
</code></pre>
